.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt

TypoScript Reference
--------------------

Settings inheritance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To avoid redundancy there is an inheritance structure within the settings. There are basically three levels top down:

1. plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document|page|generalText:

The top level are global settings for document, page and generalText (all textual output).

2. plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.headline|text|list:

Headline, text and list inherit settings from generalText. All the settings from generalText may be overwritten here with specific settings.

3. Fluid ViewHelper attributes:

The bottom level are Fluid ViewHelper attributes. All settings for document, page, headline, text and list may be overwritten using Fluid ViewHelper attributes with the same name. e.g:

::

	{namespace pdf=Bithost\Pdfviewhelpers\ViewHelpers}

	<pdf:document outputDestination="I" title="Bithost Example">
		<pdf:page autoPageBreak="1">
			<pdf:headline color="#333">Different color</pdf:headline>
		</pdf:page>
	</pdf:document>

Properties in plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. container:: ts-properties

	============================================ ===================================== ==========================================
	Property                                     Data type                             Default
	============================================ ===================================== ==========================================
	config.class_                                :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       Bithost\\Pdfviewhelpers\\Model\\EmptyFPDI
	config.language_                             :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       ger
	config.hyphenFile_                           :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       hyph-de-ch-1901.tex
	config.disableCache_                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      1
	config.jpgQuality_                           :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      100
	config.sRGBMode_                             :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      0
	config.allowedImageTypes_                    Array                                 *See static TypoScript template*
	config.fonts.subset_                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      1
	config.fonts.addTTFFont_                     Array
	document.title_                              :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       Default document title
	document.subject_                            :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       Autogenerated PDF, By Bithost GmbH
	document.author_                             :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       Bithost GmbH
	document.keywords_                           :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`
	document.creator_                            :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       TYPO3 EXT:pdfviewhelpers
	document.outputDestination_                  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       I
	document.outputPath_                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       document.pdf
	document.sourceFile_                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`
	page.autoPageBreak_                          :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      0
	page.margins_                                Array                                 {top: 15, right: 15, bottom: 15, left: 15}
	page.importPage_                             :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`
	page.orientation_                            :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       P
	page.format_                                 :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       A4
	generalText.trim_                            :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      1
	generalText.removeDoubleWhitespace_          :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      1
	generalText.color_                           :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       #000
	generalText.fontFamily_                      :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       helvetica
	generalText.fontSize_                        :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      11
	generalText.fontStyle_                       :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       R
	generalText.padding_                         Array                                 {top: 0, right: 0, bottom: 0, left: 0}
	generalText.alignment_                       :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       L
	generalText.paragraphSpacing_                :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      2
	generalText.autoHyphenation_                 :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      0
	text.trim                                    :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	text.removeDoubleWhitespace                  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	text.color.                                  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	text.fontFamily                              :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	text.fontSize                                :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      *See generalText*
	text.fontStyle                               :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	text.padding                                 Array                                 *See generalText*
	text.alignment                               :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	text.paragraphSpacing                        :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      *See generalText*
	text.autoHyphenation                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	headline.trim                                :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	headline.removeDoubleWhitespace              :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	headline.color                               :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	headline.fontFamily                          :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	headline.fontSize                            :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      *See generalText*
	headline.fontStyle                           :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	headline.padding                             Array                                 {top: 6, right: 0, bottom: 3, left: 0}
	headline.alignment                           :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	headline.paragraphSpacing                    :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      *See generalText*
	headline.autoHyphenation                     :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	list.trim                                    :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	list.removeDoubleWhitespace                  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	list.color                                   :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	list.fontFamily                              :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	list.fontSize                                :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`      *See generalText*
	list.fontStyle                               :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       *See generalText*
	list.padding                                 Array                                 {top: 0, right: 0, bottom: 2, left: 1}
	list.alignment                               :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       L
	list.bulletColor_                            :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`       #000
	list.bulletImageSrc_                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`
	list.bulletSize_                             :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-float`        1.5
	list.autoHyphenation                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	html.autoHyphenation                         :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`      *See generalText*
	html.styleSheet_                             :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`
	============================================ ===================================== ==========================================


Property details
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. only:: html

	.. contents::
		:local:
		:depth: 1

.. _config.class:

config.class
"""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.class =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

Decides which PHP class should be used as TCPDF object. The class must inherit from \\TCPDF. If this setting is left empty \\TCPDF is used as class.
There are three other possibilities shipped with this extension:

* Bithost\\Pdfviewhelpers\\Model\\EmptyTCPDF: renders empty headers and footers
* Bithost\\Pdfviewhelpers\\Model\\EmptyFPDI: renders empty headers and footers, able to load PDFs as template documents
* Bithost\\Pdfviewhelpers\\Model\\BithostTCPDF: renders headers belonging to the example

You can easily provide your own class in order to render custom header and footers or to customize TCPDF in any way.

.. _config.language:

config.language
"""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.language =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

Decides which language settings are used from TCPDF. All possible language codes can be found in **Resources/Private/tcpdf/examples/lang/**.

.. _config.hyphenFile:

config.hyphenFile
"""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.hyphenFile =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The name of the hyphen file used for the automatic hyphenation. This needs to be set according to the language of your document.
All possible values can be found in the directory "pdfviewhelpers/Resources/Private/Hyphenation/"

Example values are: hyph-de-1996.tex, hyph-en-gb.tex, hyph-nl.tex, hyph-fr.tex

.. _config.disableCache:

config.disableCache
"""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.disableCache =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

Decides whether the TYPO3 frontend cache will be disabled or not.

.. _config.jpgQuality:

config.jpgQuality
"""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.jpgQuality =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`

JpgQuality being used, values from 0 - 100.

.. _config.sRGBMode:

config.sRGBMode
"""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.sRGBMode =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

Enable sRGBMode, see TCPDF documentation for further information.

.. _config.allowedImageTypes:

config.allowedImageTypes
""""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.allowedImageTypes =` Array

Mapping of TCPDF image functions to their corresponding image file extensions.

.. _config.fonts.subset:

config.fonts.subset
"""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.fonts.subset =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

Decides whether to subset the used fonts or not. When this is set to true it is not possible to edit the generated PDF
if the font is not present in the users system, but the file size gets smaller.

.. _config.fonts.addTTFFont:

config.fonts.addTTFFont
"""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.config.fonts.addTTFFont =` Array

Possibility to add custom fonts, please have a look at the dedicated chapter Custom Fonts.

.. _document.title:

document.title
""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.title =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The title of the generated PDF document.

.. _document.subject:

document.subject
""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.subject =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The subject of the generated PDF document.

.. _document.author:

document.author
"""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.author =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The author of the generated PDF document.

.. _document.keywords:

document.keywords
"""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.keywords =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

A comma separated list of keywords for the generated PDF document.

.. _document.creator:

document.creator
""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.creator =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The creator of the generated PDF document.

.. _document.outputDestination:

document.outputDestination
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.outputDestination =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The TCPDF output destination for the PDF. Possible values are:

	================= ======================================================================================
	outputDestination Description
	================= ======================================================================================
	I                 Sending the PDF inline to the browser.
	D                 Sending the PDF as immediate file download.
	F                 Saving the PDF to the specified outputPath.
	FI                Saving the PDF to the specified outputPath and sending it inline to the browser.
	FD                Saving the PDF to the specified outputPath and sending it as immediate file download.
	E                 Return the PDF as base64 mime multi-part email attachment (RFC 2045).
	S                 Return the PDF as string.
	================= ======================================================================================

.. _document.outputPath:

document.outputPath
"""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.outputPath =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The TCPDF output path of the document. If you are saving the file to filesystem this is a relative path from the
webroot directory e.g. *fileadmin/pdfviewhelpers/projectXY.pdf*.
If you are sending it inline or as file download it is simply the name of the document e.g. *projectXY.pdf*.

.. _document.sourceFile:

document.sourceFile
"""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.document.sourceFile =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The sourceFile is a the path to a PDF document you want to use as a template (see also page.importPage).

.. _page.autoPageBreak:

page.autoPageBreak
""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.page.autoPageBreak =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

Decides whether TCPDF uses auto page break or not. You can always add a new page by adding a new <pdf:page> tag to your template.

.. _page.margins:

page.margins
""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.page.margins =` Array

An array of the margins for each page.

.. _page.importPage:

page.importPage
"""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.page.importPage =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`

Specifies which page should be used as template for the current page. Must be used together with document.sourceFile.

.. _page.orientation:

page.orientation
""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.page.orientation =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

Defines the orientation of the current page and the following pages. Possible values are P (portrait) and L (landscape).

.. _page.format:

page.format
"""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.page.format =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

Defines the format of the current page. Possible values are e.g. A0 - A12, to see all possible values you have to check \TCPDF_STATIC::$page_formats

.. _generalText.trim:

generalText.trim
""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.trim =`  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

If set to true leading and trailing spaces or tabs are trimmed.

.. _generalText.removeDoubleWhitespace:

generalText.removeDoubleWhitespace
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.removeDoubleWhitespace =`  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

If set to true double spaces within text elements are removed.

.. _generalText.color:

generalText.color
"""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.color =`  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The text color as hex value, possible syntax are: #000 or #000000

.. _generalText.fontFamily:

generalText.fontFamily
""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.fontFamily =`  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The font family being used. You can add your own fonts using your own TCPDF class.

.. _generalText.fontSize:

generalText.fontSize
""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.fontSize =`  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`

The font size being used.

.. _generalText.fontStyle:

generalText.fontStyle
"""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.fontStyle =`  :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The font style being used. Possible values are: R (regular), B (bold), I (italic), U (underline)

.. _generalText.padding:

generalText.padding
"""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.padding =`  Array

An array of the padding for each text element.

.. _generalText.alignment:

generalText.alignment
"""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.alignment =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

Possible values are: 'L' (left), 'C' (center), 'R' (right), 'J' (justify)

.. _generalText.paragraphSpacing:

generalText.paragraphSpacing
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.paragraphSpacing =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-integer`

Defines the spacing of paragraphs separated by new lines.

.. _generalText.autoHyphenation:

generalText.autoHyphenation
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.generalText.autoHyphenation =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-boolean`

A boolean value indicating whether to use TCPDF's automatic hyphenation or not. You can also add soft hyphens yourself to your text with "&shy;".
If you use automatic hyphenation please make sure that you configure "config.hyphenFile" to match your language.

.. _list.bulletColor:

list.bulletColor
""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.list.bulletColor =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The color of the bullet used as hex value, possible syntax are: #000 or #000000

.. _list.bulletImageSrc:

list.bulletImageSrc
"""""""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.list.bulletImageSrc =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The path to an image that should be used as bullet.

.. _list.bulletSize:

list.bulletSize
"""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.list.bulletSize =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-float`

The size of the bullet as floating point value.

.. _html.styleSheet:

html.styleSheet
"""""""""""""""

:typoscript:`plugin.tx_pdfviewhelpers.settings.html.styleSheet =` :ref:`t3tsref:data-type-string`

The path to a style sheet being used in the HtmlViewHelper. The can be provided relative to the webroot directory, e.g. "fileadmin/pdf_style.css".
